All right guys in this video we're going to look at fonts specifically the font family property and
font size property.
So you might want to use different styles of fonts in different Web sites and different user interfaces.
So we're going to take a look at how to do that.
We're going to talk about Web say fonts and also how to use fonts from from other sources like Google
fonts.
So let's create a new file here called 0 3 underscore fonts start HD HTML and we're going to put our
boiler plate in here and let's go down and just change the title to fonts and let's put our style tags
in here for our CSX and then I'm going to copy from the last file the selectors just the two divs that
are in the HDMI all here just so we can use them as a as text display.
So I'm going to save this and then open with five server and let's make it a little bigger a whole control
and hit the plus symbol and just make these a little bigger.
All right.
So in our style right here let's add a selector for the body.
That's usually where you're going to add your font family because then it affects your whole page right.
So the fonts for your whole page.
So we want to use font dash family which takes in a font stack.
So basically a list of different fonts in Invesco we get this cool dropdown speaking of font stacks
that we can choose from.
But before we get into that I want to take a look at web save fonts.
Now you have the ability to use pretty much any font that you want.
You can get your hands on.
But if they're not these web save fonts then you're going to want to include them include the actual
font files within your Web site just like you would include a CSX file and you can also link to them
remotely which I'm going to show you how to do with Google fonts.
But these right here you don't need to do anything extra for because they're going to they're going
to be available in all all browsers that users are using to view your Web site with.
And notice that there is some of these there's multiple fonts.
These are actually called font stacks.
For instance this first one aerial Helvetica sans serif.
What's going to happen is it's going to look for the aerial font to use it.
If it can't find that it will move to use Helvetica.
If it can't find that a little use to use any sans serif font.
So basically you have sans serif and serif and these.
This is an example of what these look like.
So basically a Sarah font has these these edges these points on the edge and a sans serif font is like
a flat look for the most part you're probably going to want to use a sans serif font because they just
they just look neater.
They also look much more modern.
And part of the reason for that is because times new roman which is a very Sarah font is the default.
OK.
So when we don't add a font family that's what's used some of my favorite web save fonts or aerial.
I also like for Dan I like to Homa.
So let's jump back into V.S. code and in Chrome and by default.
Like I said it's using sans serif.
You can see the kind of like the point see the a right here.
So I want to change this to Ariel now obvious code if I just type in a Ariel health health Ariel Helvetica
sans serif is actually an option.
OK so this is a font stack.
Like I said it's going to look for Ariel then Helvetica sans serif.
If I save this.
Notice how it changes into a flatter looking font.
OK.
Let's try something else.
Let's try for Danna.
So just if I just put a V in there it's going to ver Dan is going to pop up.
So we have Vedanta Geneva to home a sans serif.
Save it.
It's a little different but it's still a sans serif font.
OK so if you want to use something different something that isn't in that list I showed you then what
I would recommend is using Google fonts.
So I'm going to open up a new browser here and just make it bigger.
And let's head over to fonts dot google dot com so here you can go over to search.
You can search for certain fonts you can browse them if you want.
You can see samples of them.
I like rubato.
That's what I use quite a bit.
And you see it pops up over here.
There's rubato rubato condensed or bottom mono slab so let's say we want to use this rubato font.
We can click this plus sign right here and we get this little pop up.
And if I click on that it shows us how we can bring this in to our HD PML.
We can do it using a link tag just like we do with just regular CSX files.
We can also import it into our CSX like this.
Usually I do import it but since we're putting our CSX in the team I'll file I'm just going to use the
link.
OK.
So if we grab that and then it shows us how we can actually implement it we can just add the font family
and then rubato sans serif.
So let's go back into v as code and let's open up our our other browser here and let's go right below
the next year we'll go right above the title and paste in that link.
OK.
So it links to fonts a Google API dot com slash CSX and then as a parameter it has family equals or
bottle.
So now we should be able to go ahead and put in Votto just like it said and then sans serif and if I
save it there we go and that looks pretty pretty nice and clean.
I really like the rubato font so that's how we can use basically non web save fonts.
OK.
So next thing I want to look at is font size.
OK so let's say font size.
Now the standard is 16 pixels and that's actually on the HD PML tag.
The HDL tag by default has a font size of 16 pixels that's what you're seeing that we do have this zoomed
in a little bit.
That's why it's bigger actually let's put it back to just.
Let's put it back to just 100 percent.
So I'm going to do control and then the minus.
And that's 110 that's 100.
So that's the default.
So let's change it to 18 pixels.
OK.
And for the most part I usually leave it at 16.
But just to show you I'll change it to 18 save and I can see it's bigger.
Also we can adjust the line height which is basically the height of each line.
So let's say line X line dash height.
And this is going to this is usually in m units which is a relative unit.
Now I'm going to go over Ramón M units later on.
So don't worry if you don't really understand this but a common common value I like to use for the line
height for the body is one point six AM and we'll save.
And notice how now there there's more space in between each line.
OK.
So I think it makes it look a little cleaner.
Now I want to talk a little bit about units so pixels and so on.
Now looking at this list of CSX units this one which is absolute units and then we also have relative
units it may be a little overwhelming but don't worry about it because we don't use most of these.
In fact the only thing we're going to use on this page is pixels pixels as that is the the common absolute
unit that you're going to use you can use centimeters you can use millimeters inches.
You can set your font to one inch if you want but that's not something that you're probably going to
do what you're going to use as pixels and the exact size of size of one pixel is one ninety six of one
inch.
OK.
There's also points points may be familiar from something like Microsoft Word and one point is one seventy
two of one inch you may run into points but for the most part you're going to see pixels.
You also have peak is which it's actually equal to twelve point scale.
You're not going to really see that.
Now there's also something called relative units which I'm going to get into later I'm not going to
really focus on this right now but for instance you have percentage.
You can set it to percentage of a parent element.
And by the way this doesn't have to be just font size.
This could be for margin padding line height.
What else with height.
All that stuff.
OK.
You also have m in RAM units.
M is basically it's a multiplier so whatever the size of your parent element let's say the parent div
to a paragraph is is 16 pixels and you set it set it to 1 m that's going to be equal to 16 pixels if
you set it to one point two m that will be equal to 16 pixels time's one point two REM units act the
same way except instead of the parent element they use the root H team l element which by default is
sixteen pixels.
So if you set it to one REM by default it'll be set to 16 pixels.
And if this is confusing the crap out of you.
Don't worry we're gonna get into this stuff later.
I'm not even going to bother going over viewport with an viewport height right now.
All right let's head back into v as code and I'm actually going to put the font family back to aerial
or aerial Helvetica sans serif and I just want to show you a couple more font properties.
So I want to look at font weight and font style which are very simple.
They're basically used to make some text bold or make Text Italic.
So I'm going to add a span in here so let's say span.
I'm going to take the ending tag here.
Control C copy it.
Delete it and then put that there and also put a span down here.
Stu span and we'll take the ending tag.
Put that down here.
All right.
So let's save that.
Let's go up here and I want to show you how to target these spans.
So for this one here we can say we want to go into the welcome div..
OK so the div has the idea of welcome and then we want to go into the paragraph and then we want to
go into that span.
So that's how we can target this first span right here.
Now technically we don't even need the paragraph because it's still going to look into this div with
the idea of welcome.
And then onto this span.
But I think it's more organized to keep the paragraph in there.
OK.
Just as an extra step and let's say we want to make the font weight bold and notice that this.
This V.S. code gives us the selections which we could use numbers to make them more or less bold but
we're just going to choose bold and save.
And notice how now the span the text it's within the span is bold.
OK so just like the strong tag we can set it to bold through CSX.
So let's target this.
This span down here by saying we want the about div paragraph span and we're going to set the font style
to italic and save.
And now you can see it is very faint but this text is now italic.
So these are the font based properties in the next video I want to start to get into colors.
And you saw that I used for instance the color name like red and green.
I also use this weird this no sign and then some some letters that's actually called hexadecimal.
We also have something called our G.B. so I want to look at colors and the different types that we can
use in CSX.